The theme of our broadcast
is a very comforting one:
“Being ‘Securely Wrapped
in the Bag of Life With Jehovah.’”
Perhaps the thought
of being securely wrapped
makes us think of a safely swaddled baby
or of being enveloped
in a warm blanket on a cold night.
In the Bible, these words
were uttered by the woman Abigail
to Jehovah’s servant David.
To understand the meaning of the words
and their importance today,
let’s review the context
of 1 Samuel chapter 25.
David and 600 of his men
were dwelling as fugitives.
They eventually encountered men
who worked as shepherds
for Abigail’s husband, Nabal.
David and his men began
to help guard Nabal’s flocks
and serve as “a protective wall”
for Nabal’s flocks and servants
against thieves and invaders
who roamed through the wilderness.
It was likely challenging
to find enough food for 600 soldiers,
so David decided to send ten of his men
to kindly ask Nabal for food
in repayment for the services
that they had performed.
But at 1 Samuel 25:10, 11,
note Nabal’s reply:
“Nabal answered David’s servants:
“‘Who is David, and who is the son of Jesse?
“‘Nowadays many servants
are breaking away from their masters.
“‘Do I have to take my bread and my water
“‘and the meat
that I butchered for my shearers
and give it to men who come
from who knows where?’”
This was not the response that David
and his men were expecting to hear.
The Bible describes Nabal
as a very harsh, worthless man,
and this is certainly evidenced by his reply.
“He screamed insults”
at the messengers and ridiculed David,
comparing him to a runaway servant.
So David decided
to take matters into his own hands
and resolve the situation
the way many people today might
—by fighting.
In verse 13,
he has 400 of his men
prepare themselves for battle,
with one mission
—to wipe out every male
in Nabal’s household.
Eventually, word got back to Abigail
about what her husband had done.
Without telling Nabal,
she gathered an abundance of food
and went out to meet David.
When she met up with him,
she poured out her heart at length,
asking David to forgive her personally
and making a powerful plea for mercy
on behalf of her husband and her household.
She acknowledged that Nabal
was a foolish and senseless man,
so she urged David not to take any action
that might bring bloodguilt upon him
or cause him to be affected
by a troubled conscience.
As Abigail concluded her appeal to David,
notice what she tells him in verse 29,
the theme of our discussion:
“When someone rises up
to pursue you and seeks your life,
“the life of my lord will be wrapped securely
“in the bag of life with Jehovah your God,
“but the lives of your enemies
he will hurl away like stones from a sling.”
Just as we might wrap up something valuable
in order to protect and preserve it,
Abigail was telling David
that that is how his life
would be in Jehovah’s hands.
Jehovah would protect and preserve
David’s life from his enemies
as long as he did not seek
to save himself by personal efforts
but waited on Jehovah,
trusting in the One to whom he owed his life.
What lessons can we learn from this account?
As David saw, his relationship
with Jehovah was a protection.
In verse 32, he acknowledges
that God had sent Abigail with the warning.
We learn
that Jehovah’s spiritual protection for us
is related to the quality
of our relationship with him.
That’s why the Bible tells us at James 4:8:
“Draw close to God,
and he will draw close to you.”
Jehovah invites us to draw near to him
because he wants to receive us
into his favor as his friends.
When we dedicate our lives
and vow to serve him unconditionally,
we gain an approved standing with him;
we’re figuratively put in that “bag of life.”
And as we work to develop
a close personal relationship with him,
then we can experience
Jehovah’s friendship and protection.
We would never want
to restrict Jehovah’s protection
by not looking to him for guidance
or relying on our own thinking.
Now, can we think of areas or situations
that might require us to wait on Jehovah?
Perhaps we’re experiencing
literal opposition at work or at school.
Like Abigail, we might face the challenge
of living with a difficult marriage mate.
Maybe we’re battling a health issue
and loyalty is needed
regarding our medical choices.
Or it may be that we live in a country
where we cannot preach freely
or that we face opposition for our beliefs.
Really, it could be any number of situations.
But it is our response
—the way we handle the situation—
that indicates how much
we are allowing Jehovah to help us.
Do we trust him enough
that we can leave the matter in his hands
and see how he works
things out in our behalf?
We have to manifest
Christian qualities in order to do that.
Think about what qualities displayed
by Abigail and David impress you most.
Two that come to mind
are patience and reasonableness.
Patience is closely connected with endurance
and enables one to put up
with difficult circumstances
while maintaining a positive attitude.
Reasonableness describes
a person who is fair,
considerate, willing to yield to others.
How well this describes Abigail!
It must have been quite a challenge
to live with someone like Nabal.
But nowhere do we read
that she was ever disrespectful of him
or that she belittled him.
Even when she referred to him
as senseless in verse 25,
from Jehovah’s standpoint,
her comments were proper
because Nabal’s actions
put his entire household in danger.
How about David?
He was in a position of authority,
but he showed great patience
and reasonableness in listening to Abigail
and having the good sense
to know that she was right.
That’s not always easy to do
in the heat of the moment
or when we’re upset.
Perhaps you recall that at our
“Don’t Give Up!”
Regional Convention last year,
when discussing 2 Peter 1:5-8,
we learned a nice formula
that can help us
to cultivate and strengthen
Christian qualities.
We were encouraged to study them,
meditate on them,
and put them into practice.
If we apply this formula
with the qualities
of patience and reasonableness,
it can help us to endure
our trials successfully.
And we’re confident
that Jehovah will supply us
with whatever power we need
so that we will not tire out
as we continue to endure
and put our trust in him.
In addition to developing these qualities,
something else that can help us
is our spiritual routine.
Our consistent routine
of study, meeting attendance,
and the ministry will help us remain busy,
stay active, and make good decisions.
We’ll have no time
to become curious or occupied
with the things this world has to offer.
It’s good to remember
the people during the days of Haggai.
When the Jews lost their focus
and started neglecting Jehovah’s temple,
they lost his blessing
and protection spiritually.
And what was the result?
Well, notice how Haggai draws our attention
to a different type of “bag”
at Haggai 1:6:
“You have sown much seed,
but you harvest little.
“You eat, but it is not to satisfaction.
“You drink, but you do not drink your fill.
“You put on clothing, but no one gets warm.
“The one who hires himself out puts his wages
in a bag full of holes.”
The Jews sowed seed
but had a meager harvest.
They lacked enough food
to satisfy their needs.
They were unable to clothe
themselves with warm garments.
Because Jehovah withheld his blessings,
Haggai rightly compared them to a man
who “puts his wages in a bag full of holes.”
Imagine the disappointment
of discovering that hard-earned wages
had gradually disappeared
through a leaking bag!
Of course,
our focus is not material prosperity,
because, whether we have
an abundance of material things or not,
if we fail to receive Jehovah’s blessing,
our spirituality is jeopardized.
So we must be determined
never to lose our focus
and keep Jehovah
in the forefront of our lives.
When we examine the life of David,
it’s evident that he enjoyed
a preserved and protected
relationship with God.
When you read the book of Psalms,
take note of how David
describes Jehovah’s protective care
in Psalm 18,
Psalm 31, and Psalm 34
as he went through distresses
—just beautiful accounts!
Now, did David always do
everything the right way?
No.
Think of his encounter with Nabal.
While his angry reaction was understandable,
his way of expressing it was not correct.
But David learned from his mistakes,
and each new trial that he went through
strengthened his relationship
with Jehovah even more.
For example,
after the ordeal with Nabal,
a short time later,
David married Abigail.
They were still fugitives,
but he found a king that befriended them,
and he gave David’s men
and family a land to dwell in.
One day, while all the men were away,
the Amalekites raided and burned the city
and carried off all the men’s wives,
children, and flocks.
Upon returning
and seeing what had happened,
David and his men wept.
Grief quickly turned to bitterness,
and David’s men spoke of stoning him.
This was likely quite stressful for David.
He was concerned
for the safety of his family,
and likely he was frustrated
that his men had turned on him.
Maybe he felt disrespected again,
as he had with Nabal.
So how would he handle this situation?
We get a glimpse of David’s feelings
at 1 Samuel 30:6:
“David was very distressed,
“because the men were talking of stoning him,
“for all the men had become very bitter
over the loss of their sons and daughters.”
But notice,
how did David handle the situation?
The verse continues:
“But David strengthened himself
by Jehovah his God.”
How did he do this?
Verse 8 says:
“David inquired of Jehovah.”
This time, David has
a different thought process and response.
Immediately he remembers
to consult Jehovah.
Isn’t this a nice reminder
that when you and I are going
through difficult trials and situations,
we want to immediately pray to Jehovah
and seek his direction
through the pages of his Word, the Bible?
This is essential
for our spiritual protection.
So in review,
as we face difficult situations in life,
may we look for opportunities
to show and develop our Christian qualities
—such as patience and reasonableness.
These qualities show Jehovah
that we want to be like him,
that we have
the mental disposition of Christ,
and that we will allow Him
to guide us constantly.
Next, may we keep focused and busy
“in the work of the Lord.”
By drawing close to Jehovah through prayer
and engaging in spiritual activities,
we make the best of our situation now.
But we will also find
everlasting protection in Jehovah’s hands,
safely swaddled
and securely wrapped in his “bag of life”!